##
Personal Details: 
Name - Pratik Sharma 
Location - India 
Phone - +91-8217824920 
Email - pratikkrsharma@gmail.com 
LinkedIn - linkedin.com/in/pratikkrsharma/ 

##
Bio: 
Analytically minded and accomplished engineer having experience in building highly scalable and robust data applications, 
pipelines and workflows for multiple organizations. I love to deep dive into business problems and find technical solutions to them. 
To do so, I focus on to improve my technical knowledge, aptitude and logical abilities which helps me to think out of the box. 
I am an adaptable professional who can navigate ambiguous environments and provide technical insights to maximize data value for an organization. 
Built highly scalable and robust data pipelines for multiple organizations. 
Worked on implementing AI solutions using Python, OpenAI Agents. 
Analysis of data with python on multiple projects. 
Good in learning new technologies and applying it on various business requirements. 

##
Skills:
AI Skills: OpenAI API, Agents SDK, Langchain, CrewAI, Copilot, Cursor. 
Advance – Python, PySpark, SQL, NoSQL, AWS, Data Analytics, Data Warehouse, Distributed Systems. 
Intermediate – Databricks, Chatbot, NLP, NLU, OpenAI API & Packages, Airflow, Docker, Azure, CI/CD, Golang. 
Other Tools Used – RASA, MongoDB, Postgres, MS Synapse, RDS, EC2, S3, Glue, Lambda, Jenkins, GIT. 

##
Experience:
1. Gartner - Jan 2022 to Present - Gurugram, India 
a. Designed and led the development of unified project to maintain analytical profile for every customer at enterprise level,
giving all information related to their journey and engagements. Currently being used by 2500+ associates and helped saved 
20 hours/week giving additional time to associates to focus on predictive analysis. 
b. Historical data generated helped in providing detailed insights into customer trends and patterns to understand their behavior,
facilitated in predicting churn rate and sales pitching of similar products. 
c. Cut projected time for setup of new projects by two weeks by developing reusable ETL components and documentation. This 
was presented to and approved by the architecture team at company level. 
d. Identified free calendar slots on associates outlook using Microsoft's 
graph API, which helped in automating meeting invitation process for clients. 
Increased data accuracy to 99% and saved 1 hour/daily efforts of associates. 
e. End to End automation, with efficient and accurate processing of retention 
and finance data for key business reporting dashboards. Saved 2-3 days/
month of manual effort of 1 full time associate. 
f. Experience coding using CoPilot, Cursor. Implemented use cases using OpenAI APIs, Agents SDK, Langchain. Used open-source AI models provided by llama for stock report analysis, meeting summary and text to image generation. 

2. Mindtree - Jun 2019 to Dec 2021 - Bengaluru, India 
a. Developed and incorporated analytics tool for MindFlow, an internal chatbot platform, deployed it on Azure, which assisted 
in improving the trained nlp model of chatbot. Including visualization on how users interact with the chatbot and their 
conversation journey. 
b. Achieved 75% increase in performance in finding text similarity by using artificial intelligence and machine learning models 
such as glove, bert and by implementing multi/parallel processing. 
c. Remodeled rasa nlu by new tensorflow method, thus reducing its training and classification time by 1/3rd. 
d. Worked on the analytical side of stock recommendation app called InvestorAi, automated its usage data analytics, and 
scheduled it for daily/weekly analytics report generation, output sent via mail. These analytics helped client in making various 
key decisions for the future design and development of the app. 

##
Education:
University - Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) 
Year - Aug 2015 to Jun 2019 
Degree- B.E. Computer Science & Engineering 
Result- First Class with Distinction (FCD) 

##
Certifications: 
1. AWS developer associate 
2. Microsoft Azure fundamentals 
3. and Oracle foundations associate 
4. Understanding Machine Learning with Python 
5. Distributed Computing with Spark SQL 
6. Data Structures 
7. Python Data analysis 

##
Work Highlights:
1. Earned a spot-on award for managing our project stall at Mindtree’s annual conclave. 
2. Introduced and innovated no touch communication poc, A youtube video of me presenting poc. 
3. Implemented ndc demo chatbot using which users can get flight booking details and its current status. 

##
Languages: 
1. English (Professional Working) 
2. Hindi (Native or Bilingual)
